In this video, I'll show you how to
build your own trading strategy in only
20 minutes and in only three steps.
Let's start. So, these are the three
steps and components that I use for 7
years of trading and until now in all my
trading setups and strategies and they
can actually be found in almost every
trading strategy. So, at least these
three, maybe more, but these three needs
to be found in every trading strategy.
And actually, these are the same steps
that I also made the edge model out of
and this is the model I'm teaching my
student now in its cool in my community.
However, I'll be teaching you these
three steps so you can actually build
your own new strategy or you could
improve the one you already have by
identifying your three main steps and
then it's going to be more clear. But,
let's talk about the first step and that
is the direction and bias. Now,
direction and bias, this step is all
about one main question and for every
step, we're going to be covering one
main question that's going to explain
everything about this step. So, for this
one, it's all about where is price
going? So, the main thing you want to
understand from this step and one of the
mistakes a lot of people do is doing
multiple things in one step, which is
not going to work. So, for this specific
step, all we want to identify is where
price is going. Is it going up or down?
And that's it. So, this could be done by
using market structure, by using this,
you know, finding a high probability
range, a sweep, POI, moving average and
a lot of other things. So, again, this
could be done by a lot of multiple ways,
but the main thing is the direction
itself. Again, we could find it using
market structure or ranges or a sweep.
Now, if we take a look at this, we can
see that we failed to displace above a
high and based on this, we can maybe
predict that price is going to go lower.
So, this is a sweep type. It's fake out
or failing to close above or below a
high or low. And then we have the market
structure. We also have market
structure. So, for this one, based on
this, I can see we have a break of
structure, we have a displacement and
price going, you know, strongly above a
high. So, we close above and now what
I'm thinking that we are going to go up,
maybe until here and then go lower a bit
and then continue to the upside. So,
here the answer for this question, where
is price going? The answer is going up.
Now, here, where price is going? So, it
looks like we're creating uh lower lows
and then lower highs and in this case, I
can see price maybe continuing to the
downside. And it's all based on this,
based on the big picture, what are we
doing here? Are we going up or going
down? And then you answer this question.
You could also find this using moving
average. So, you could have two moving
average, one uh slow and one is fast and
you can then find where price is
relative to the moving average or
where's the placement of the you know,
the price compared to the moving average
and then you can identify the direction
or the bias. So, it's all about what?
It's all about where is price going? And
you could do this in multiple ways. Now,
for this one, the final answer for this
step is going to be, "Oh, I think we're
bullish or we're bearish." It does not
matter where price is going to react
off. It does not matter where price is
going to stop. Nothing matters. The only
thing that matters is where are we
likely going to go to? Is it going to be
bullish or bearish? And that's it.
Before we continue, I've taken
everything I've learned over the past 7
years and put it into one place, Its
Cool. Inside, you will get the full
blueprint to finally make it in trading,
including the exact strategy I use every
day, the edge model. These are some of
the trades I've taken with my members.
You are welcome to join if you are ready
to make the real change in your trading.
Let's continue. Now, step two is key
level and think about this as this main
question, where will price react? And
you want to think about it this way. So,
even though we know that price is going
up now, so we know we have a bullish
break of structure here and we're about
to retrace lower, maybe and it's not
that when I say we're bullish, that
means I'm going to enter now and
anytime. It's not like that because
trading is all about probabilities and
about a good price position. So, from
this, what I can see happening is that,
okay, we're bullish now. That is the
first question that we answer and that
is the first step. The second step is
where will price react? And from this
range or you can also consider the main
range, maybe from here if price was
going up, okay, and we have a low here.
We can see that we have a key level
here. This might be anything. This might
be part of market structure. This could
be your Fibonacci zone. This could be
any support or resistance level or
anything, you know, fair value gap,
anything that you use and feel free to
use whatever you want. Uh for me, I do
use specific things. Now, here is a key
level. There is another key level. There
is another key level. And you mark the
ones that you can go with. So, I'm not
suggesting that you go with all key
levels. You look for the valid ones and
the third step is actually going to help
you with that, too. So, I know that I
have this key level, this one, this one,
this one. And I'm might go with this one
because I think this is more valid and
maybe this one. And this is the
question, where will price react? So, I
say, "You know what? I think this one or
this one." And I'm going to keep an eye
at these two levels. Now, an example of
that is this here. So, if I zoom in,
what we have is price is going lower,
going up, going lower and we see that we
have a huge price going lower, breaking
structure. So, based on the market
structure, just based on the market
structure itself, I can say that we are
about to go up now, but this is only a
retracement. The direction or the bias
or the answer for that question about
the bias, where are we going? The answer
is we're going bearish, we're going
lower. Now, where are we going lower
from? And that is the answer of the key
levels. So, we have this key level here.
We have this key level and we have this
one and we have this one and probably
other people, you know, different
traders will have different key levels
depending on the
criteria for the key level. What is the
key level itself? So, we do have
multiple key levels here. Now, this is
where I think price might reverse from,
maybe here and maybe here and maybe
here. And that is the second step.
That's it. So, now I do have the
direction, which is I think price is
going lower. And now, for the second
step, I know where price could react off
and I could maybe take this one or take
this one, okay, and avoid maybe these or
take this one and this one, the highest
two. And you have the freedom to pick
any key level you want and you can
develop the criteria because every step
that I'm teaching you here can be very
simple and can be very complicated
depending on what is below it. So, for
example, for the key levels, I could
have a lot of other criteria, but the
main step is going to be identifying the
key levels, identifying where price
could reverse from, okay?
[clears throat]
Now, a key level in simple terms is
where your bias is going to continue.
So, if my bias here is bearish, where
could my bias continue? So, as price is
going up, so price is going up, where
could my bias continue? My bias is
bearish. So, where could price turn
bearish again? Maybe here and maybe
here, to the lower side. And that is
what a key level is. Now, the third step
is and it's the final one is the entry.
Now, the key question for the entry is
when do you execute? So, if you go back
to the direction, it's where is price
going? So, it's about where and then for
the second step is again where it's
going to react, okay? So, where it's
going to, where it's going to react and
now we are, you know, discussing when do
you execute? So, when do you actually
enter the trade? Now, think about the
third step is the confirmation if the
key level is going to hold. So, this is
the third step because let's say we have
three key levels and I actually think
all three are valid. I cannot just enter
at all three because some of them,
because if I'm looking for the first
one, so if I have three levels, if I'm
looking only at the first one, that
means the other two are going to fail.
Or if I'm setting a limit order at all
of these, that means I have some doubts
about all of the key levels because some
of them are going to not work and some
of them are going to work. So, what is
the solution? Is looking for
confirmation at the key level. So,
confirmation again, it's if the key
level is going to hold. It's confirming
if it's going to hold or not. Now, think
about it this way. Let's say we have the
first step here, which is what?
Direction. So, I could establish the
direction using market structure. You
can see we create a high, we go lower
inside of the main range and then we
break the high again. So, now we have a
break of structure, we have the first
step done. So, now we understand the
where question is where we going? We're
going up. And the other question of the
step two is where are we going to react
off, okay? And the answer is maybe this
key level. And there is no other key
level, maybe one here and maybe one
here. But now, price comes to the key
level here. What are you going to do? In
order to confirm if this is a valid one,
is look for confirmation just inside
here. So, here you want to look for
confirmation and confirmation in simple
words is the alignment of the lower time
frame entry with the key level itself.
So, here. And the alignment also in
other word, now the alignment or the Uh,
entry can be in different ways. So, we
could have the candle entry and that
means simply when price reach that key
level, what I want to see inside is a
simple candle. This could be an
engulfing candle. This could be a pin
bar or dodgy. For example, small body
and that means we could have weakness or
strength. So, if price is coming to a
bullish key level and I see this type of
candle, maybe it's telling me that there
is weakness and I could enter based on a
candle and there's no problem with that.
You could also have a structure entry.
Now, one thing is a structure entry
could be just a candle entry on another
time frame. So, if you're looking at two
different time frames, higher time frame
could be just one candle and in lower
time frame it could be a structure. Now,
structure entry is just simply looking
for a market structure shift at the key
level. So, we have a key level here.
When price reach that, give a clean
structure, you could look for the
continuation of a key level on the lower
time frame or just enter immediately
here and then you can catch the move.
So, it's all about what? Finding the
alignment between the key level and the
entry itself. Whenever we have a key
level that is bullish, so in this
example bullish and then I can see that
when price reach that key level, it
turns out bullish. That means there is
alignment and that is the entry. Now,
one thing we need to actually apply is
the time frame alignment. So, for this
specific thing, time frame alignment is
very important. It's going to Now, you
could do all of this in one time frame.
However, it's going to result in lower
reward to risk. Maybe maybe good win
rate, okay? But it's going to give you
much lower reward to risk. Maybe only
third or actually maybe less of the
reward to risk. So, if you have, you
know,
let's say two to one two to one reward
to risk. With the time frame alignment,
you could take that to five to one six
to one or maybe more. Okay? Now, the
first type of time frame alignment is
this one. We're going to be using only
higher time frame and lower time frame.
So, for the higher time frame, we're
going to be looking for the direction.
That is step one and for the key level
and that is step two. For the lower time
frame, we're going to look for the
entry. So, only using two time frames,
which is higher time frame and lower
time frame. Now, there is another type
where we're going to be using three
different time frames. It's going to be
higher time frame, intermediate time
frame and lower time frame. Direction
for the first step with for the higher
time frame, then a key level and finally
an entry. And each of these steps is
going to be on a different time frame.
For the time frame alignment, we're not
going to be going over different and
random time frames. No, we have specific
time frame alignment to follow. So, if
you're using 4-hour as your higher time
frame, you're going to look for
15-minute as your lower time frame,
daily to 1-hour, weekly to 4-hour. As we
go lower here, the frequency of trades
is going to be higher and the time to
hold the trades is going to be lower.
So, starting from here, this is more for
scalping and as you go up, you could
actually swing trades here and yeah,
this is how it goes. So, make sure to
only use these and not just
[clears throat] go off random time
frames. So, now as an example, we're
going to be looking at this the same
screenshot that I gave you earlier
regarding the direction and key levels,
but now to put it all together. So, we
have direction going lower. Okay, we
have a main breaker structure. Some
people could see this in a very
different way. That's why it's about a
trading plan. It's about having the main
steps, but the criteria inside could be
totally different. So, what what I could
see here as a bearish, some people based
on different strategies could see it in
a different way. Could see it bullish,
okay? So, for this one, I'm seeing this
as a bearish with the key levels that I
have. When I do have a lot of key
levels, I would maybe prefer to look for
the two highest key levels or maybe
three. But we're going to keep an eye at
all of these. We're using 4-hour as our
higher time frame. We're going to be
looking at 15-minute reaction of these
levels. So, now if I play the price
action here, as you can see, price is
going up. Uh, then we have So, mainly
I'm not going to take this one, but
we're going to keep an eye at it, okay?
For the sake of the video. Now, we're
going to be looking for breaker
structure or market structure shift off
these levels, okay? Now, notice what
happened here. As price come into this
level, we had no market structure shift.
Price is going up and market structure
shift I would say is the kind of the
safest entry that you could have.
However, here what we have is price
going up to this level, going lower,
creating a low and then we have other
So, this is a strong level here where
price closed below, okay? Also below
this level, the main one here and that
is a market structure shift. So, what
you could do here is mainly I would have
a limit order here, but price did not
reach. Also at this level here, okay?
For the sake of the video, stop loss.
Uh, for this one, I think I'm going to
have a limit order here and then stop
loss above the zone. Okay? And then
maybe looking for
any target, okay? And then playing the
price action, we can see price goes
lower. Then I'm going to go to the
4-hour very quick.
And you can see Okay? Price started
going lower from there. Okay? So, I
think we get in here. I supposed, okay?
Yes. So, we get an entry here and then
we started going lower. So, only about
uh, 2.5 was presented here. Then we go
to the next level, which is here.
And notice what happened. What we have
is price going up. Okay? Going lower.
That is breaker structure. Some people
would consider this risky. Some people
would consider as a valid one. As we're
going lower, where's the key level? This
is my one of my favorite ones, okay? And
then stop loss above the high and then
targeting whatever. Now, for this one,
it gave a huge five to one, okay? Let's
see on the 4-hour. So, what validate
this is the lower time frame alignment.
Price started going lower aggressively
and then actually continuing much more
lower. So, if you notice, this is eight
to one. Now, price goes back again to
the same level, okay? But actually
actually another level that I can see
here as well. Okay, that is another one
here. We go to 15-minute time frame.
You notice as we go up here, we respect
that one. Now, if you wanted, you could
take engulfing candle. You could take
any confirmation that you can
confirm here. Any confirmation entry
that you prefer. So, now price is going
lower. There's no clean breaker
structure until here.
Okay, we have a breaker structure and
then price started going lower. What is
a key level that you can take here? That
is a key level here, okay? You have an
imbalance as well and then this is not
telling you that I'm going to take my
trade from here. It's about how to find
the confirmation. Okay, and how to align
the key level even if it's not, you
know, if it's not going to continue to
the lower side, but still going to give
some reaction that you can get a lot of
higher reward to risk out of it, okay?
So, this is how you do it. You find the
alignment between the two. Now, I'm just
curious to see what's going to happen at
the
the level I'm having above. Do you see?
I know that the direction is lower. It
might not go lower because now I can see
that price is trying to go up and trying
to go up. So, it might not be the, you
know, the move that price is going to go
here and then continue lower breaking
structure. Maybe not like this. Maybe
just going inside this main range and
then continuing higher, but I can still
see based on the key levels that price
is going to give reaction and then
continue in either direction and it does
not matter. So, we can see here price is
approaching the key level, okay?
[clears throat] Now, it's going to the
key level. Now, let's see the 15-minutes
if we have any breaker structure, okay?
So, as price come in, you know, when the
first retest, no breaker structure. Now,
based on what I see here, I can see that
there is a lot of weakness happening.
So, there is still no breaker structure
or market structure shift, which is
going to be here or maybe here for more
confirmed one. However, what I can see
happening is that this is some there's
some weakness here and you can take this
as a risky entry, but you need to have a
bit of a wide stop loss because this is
again a risky one and it does not
there's no confirmation that price is
already breaking structure. So, this
could be a bit risky, okay? And you can
take a trade here and then maybe add
more with with another confirmation,
which could be a market structure shift.
So, let's see what happened. Price
actually going up, okay?
So, very close a bit close to the stop
loss.
Now, what happened here is
price takes age of high, started going
lower. This could be This is an
engulfing candle. You could have also
taken this one if you trade candles.
Okay?
And then we have the main breaker
structure, which I said here. Breaker
structure, you could take the
continuation of this imbalance as an
example. Okay, and same stop loss. So,
you see a lot of different confirmations
that you can take, but each one needs to
be taken with a
kind of logical stop loss compared and
relative to the confirmation itself.
Okay, so now looking at the 4-hour now,
take a look at how these are very nice
entries. So, even though price was still
kind of continuing to the upside, but
these key levels give you higher reward
to risk still. And that's it for the
video. All you need is to identify the
three steps and what goes below them and
you will have a trading plan. That's it
for the video. Make sure to hit the like
button, subscribe to the channel, leave
a comment, and then make sure to check
out It's Cool, my community, if you want
to check my classes and trade with me.
That's it and I'll see you next one.
Bye-bye.